In Python, an expression is anything that
can be calculated to return a value.
So on line 4, we've got the expression a + b.
Python evaluates that expression and prints the value 15.
On the next line, we've got a - b, and that evaluates to the value 9.
So working down the code, a multiplied by b is also an expression, evaluating to 36.
Now the next two are similar, a / b and a integer divide by b.
Now they evaluate to 4, but the first one is a floating point value and the second is an int.
And finally on line 9, we've got the expression a and its remainder operator b.
Oh, I said finally there, but it's not actually the last expression in the code.
There are two more expressions on lines 1 and 2,
and it may not be obvious but, strictly speaking, 12 & 3 are also expressions.
They evaluate to the values 12 and 3, respectively, but they're still, technically, expressions.
That means you can use a literal value, anywhere that Python expects an expression.
Now there's also four more expressions at the end of the program,
but I'd only expect you to identify two of them, at the moment.
So can you spot more expressions in the code, after line 9?
Pause the video if you need to, and come back when you've found two more.
Alright so welcome back, did you spot them?
Well firstly, on line 13, we've got the literal value 1 inside the parentheses,
and it evaluates, not surprisingly, to the value 1, but again, it's still an expression.
Now also inside the parentheses, we've got a integer divide by b, and that's the two slashes.
At the moment, that evaluates to 4 because a is currently 12 and b is 3.
So these are the two expressions I
expected you to find, but there are more.
So still on line 13, the two expressions
we've identified are part of another expression.
So the code range parentheses, and then it's 1, a // by b.
That evaluates to a range of numbers from 1 to 3.
So python has to evaluate that, in order to work out what values to use in the loop.
So it evaluates the expression 1 to get the
value 1, and then a // b to get the value 4.
Once it's done that, it has to evaluate range(1, 4).
So that's another expression.
We haven't covered for loops and ranges yet, which is why I wouldn't have expected you to find that expression,
But there's also another one on line 14.
The variable i has to be evaluated so that Python knows what to print.
The first time around the loop, it evaluates to the value 1, next time around it's 2 and the last time around it evaluates to 3.
But hang on a minute, if i on line 14 is an expression,
what about a and b on line 4?
Aren't they also an expression?
Yes they are.
Python evaluates a to get the value 12,
and b to get the value 3.
It then adds them, evaluating the expression 12 + 3, and the same thing happens on lines 5 through 9.
So expressions can themselves, be made up of expressions.
In total there were 26 expressions in this code.
Now we'll look at more complex expressions in the next video,
but I'll finish this one by talking about a and b on lines 1 and 2.
They're not expressions.
You can't have an expression on the left of an assignment.
The expression on the right of the equals sign is evaluated,
and the variable on the left is bound to the result.
So a common way of saying that is to say, the value 12 is assigned to the variable a,
but I want to get you used to the idea that we bind, or attach variables to values.
The result is the same. Whenever we refer to a in the code, Python evaluates it as 12.
Okay, so what about i on line 13.
Well that's also not an expression.
i is being bound to each of the values produced by range in turn.
So if I write this code long handed instead of using a for loop,
it should become more obvious. So I'll come down here and I'll start on line 16.
So put i equals 1,
and on line 17 I'm gonna do print parentheses i, then i equals 2,
print i, i equals 3, print i.
Alright, I'll just move that up a bit.
So that does exactly the same thing, where that would take six lines of code instead of two,
which I've got on lines 13 and 14.
But when I run the program,
we get the same three values printed out again.
So if i on lines 16, and i'll just scroll us up so we can see it,
so lines 16, 18 and 20. So if I on those lines isn't an expression,
then it should be clear that it's not an expression on line 13 either.
Alright, so you'll see why we don't have i = 4 later.
I'll stop the video here now, though, and we'll look at operator precedence in the next video.